# Visual-Cryptography-using-RUBIK-S-CUBE-PRINCIPLE
In our project we are going to develop a code for more secure and fast encryption of images using a unique image encryption algorithm based on Rubik's cube principle. The pixels of the image are shuffled in a way similar to that of a Rubik’s cube in a random manner using two randomly generated vectors. Then the same vectors are used for performing bitwise operation row-wise and column-wise. The XOR operator is applied to odd rows and columns of image using a key to decrease the association between original and encrypted images. The same key is flipped and applied to even rows and columns of image.
Finally, the algorithm which we used to develop the encryption system (Rubik's cube principle) not only can achieve good encryption standards and perfect hiding ability but also can resist exhaustive attack, statistical attack and differential attack.
Various research, performance assessment tests and experimental tests done on similar type of image encryption algorithm shows it is suitable for real-time Internet encryption and transmission applications because of its fast encryption/decryption speeds it also demonstrates the robustness of the proposed algorithm against several types of attacks.
4. Innovation component in the project
In this project we are implementing ​image encryption algorithm in python based on Rubik's cube principle ​described in the following research paper. ​“ ​Loukhaoukha, K., Chouinard, J. Y., & Berdai, A. (2012). A secure image encryption algorithm based on Rubik's cube principle. Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2012, 7”
